Ogs documentation (#156)
jbathmann/pyMANGA: web/content/en/docs/Example_OGS_BETTINA/The_Boundary_Conditions.md

---
title: "The boundary conditions"
linkTitle: "The boundary conditions"
weight: 2
description:
---

For the groundwater flow model, boundary conditions and source terms must be specified.

> In this example, the boundary conditions are completely defined using a python script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the boundary conditions are defined using a python script.
```

Basically, there are other ways to define boundary conditions.

> For information that goes beyond the examples presented, the OGS community provides <a href="https://www.opengeosys.org/" target="_blank">detailed documentation</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information that goes beyond the examples presented, the OGS community provides a <a href="https://www.opengeosys.org/" target="_blank">detailed documentation</a>.
```

> In this example, boundary conditions are specified along the yz boundaries of the domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, boundary conditions are specified along the y-z boundaries of the domain.
```

What really matters is how the pressure is calculated along our edge surfaces.
A simple approach would be:

    def transectElevation(x, m=1e-3):
        return float(m * x)

    def pressure_value(z,x, tidal_cycle):
        return 1000 * 9.81 * (tidal_cycle - z + transectElevation(x))

With this helper function, the pressure along our edges can now be defined.
In each case, we introduce a boundary condition that either does not allow flow across the boundary surfaces (no connection to the seawater) or allows open mixing with the seawater in the event of overflow.

    ## Dirichlet BCs
    class BCSea_p_D(OpenGeoSys.BoundaryCondition):

        def getDirichletBCValue(self, t, coords, node_id, primary_vars):
            x, y, z = coords
            tide = tidal_cycle(t)
            value = pressure_value(z, x, tide)
            if tide < z:
                return (False, 0)
            else:
                return (True, value)

    class BCLand_p_D(OpenGeoSys.BoundaryCondition):

        def getDirichletBCValue(self, t, coords, node_id, primary_vars):
            x, y, z = coords
            value = pressure_value(z, x, 0)
            return (True, value)

> For the concentration boundary conditions, it is assumed that mixing can take place when flooded with seawater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the concentration boundary conditions, we assume that mixing can take place when flooded with seawater.
```

    ## Dirichlet BCs
    class BCSea_C(OpenGeoSys.BoundaryCondition):

        def getDirichletBCValue(self, t, coords, node_id, primary_vars):
            x, y, z = coords
            tide = tidal_cycle(t)
            value = seaward_salinity
            if tide + 1e-6 > z:
                return (True, value)
            else:
                return (False, 0)

    class BCLand_C(OpenGeoSys.BoundaryCondition):

        def getDirichletBCValue(self, t, coords, node_id, primary_vars):
            value = seaward_salinity
            return (True, value)

Now only the seawater salinity has to be assigned.
In addition, the period and amplitude can be adapted to the modes of the tide.

> For this example, the tidal range is disabled (Amplitude = 0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, the tidal range is disabled (amplitude = 0).
```
